Power utilities sell and buy energy in the market to meet the demand of their customers. Having the right load forecast is imperative because each power utility company wants to ensure its customers are getting the lowest prices for electricity. For  buying too much energy (that is going to be unused), a utility company must endure loss of revenue and face potential penalties by state regulators. However, by not buying enough, they risk of having to buy energy in ‘real time’ at a higher price. Most of the forecasted load is bought 16 hours before the start of the “flow date” in the “day-ahead” energy market. The flow date is defined as the day the energy is consumed by their customers. The rest of the load is bought in the “real time” energy market in order to hit real time fluxes of demand. For example, on Monday morning, the day ahead market opens at 6AM and closes at 8AM, where a power utility will buy the energy needed to meet the demand of their customers on Tuesday (the next day, starting at midnight). The company buys energy about 16 hours before the “flow” date begins. A 16hr load forecast is generated every morning. Typically, utility companies have under 2%  MAPE for the 16-hour future forecast.

Though the accuracy of the 16hr forecast is the most crucial, power utilities create forecast for various time horizons: 7-day, 90-day, 1-year ahead forecasts.  The goal of this assignment is to generate a long-term forecast: you will need to predict hourly load for 2008 – 2012. Your predictions for the year of 2012 will be used to determine your teams ranking in the leaderboard.

A utility company that operates in the US provided this data to us. Since the load forecast is heavily correlated with weather, as weather effects how people will use electricity (using more or less AC/heat, etc) file CompetitionData.xlsx contains not only hourly electricity load but also hourly average temperature in a secret city in the US. Both electricity load and temperature are provided for the 2008-2011 ( a total of 4 years) while for the year of 2012 only temperature are provided.
